 >> All right. Hello, everybody, and thank you so much for joining us today for the very
 last but not the least session for Startup Slam 2020 for the product and design theme.
 This session is called Beyond the Code, GitHub for Product Management, and it is presented to
 you by Anne Thomas. My name is Amy, and I will be your session moderator for today. Yeah, I guess
 the day is ending, but if you have any questions throughout the session, just add them to the chat,
 and Anne and I will try to address them as they come up, or we'll come back at the very
 end to get them answered. This theme is sponsored by Gearbox, so a huge thank you to them for their
 support, and they actually built our new Startup Slam website and helped us refresh the brand.
 Before we begin, a little bit about Anne, though. Anne has spent the past 12 years immersed in the
 wonderful world of web development as a front-end developer and can be found offering comprehensive
 Shopify store audits with the talented team at Shop Critique. Before that, she was the
 technical director at Out of the Sandbox, which is a premium Shopify theme partner,
 which is also where she successfully used GitHub to wrangle product management and ongoing
 development. So now we know a little bit about Anne. We can jump straight into it, and we can
 start the presentation. Also, if you double click on the window that she's about to share,
 it'll maximize the screen so you can not miss any detail. Fabulous. Take it away. Oh, thank you so
 much for that intro. That was great. I'm so excited. This is the first ever virtual talk
 I've ever done. I've done lots of talks in person, but never virtually, so this is going to be good.
 Just to give you kind of like an overview of what's going to happen, I do have slides,
 but this talk is also going to be "interactive," if you will. There's a lot of actually... It's
 hard to just talk about GitHub, so I'm actually going to be going into GitHub, showing you
 different project boards. You can kind of think of it sort of like a D&D-esque like Twitch stream kind of situation.
 So yeah, the main takeaway is if I teach you just a little bit about using GitHub for
 product management or a bit more about GitHub, product management and GitHub, those are the two
 things that we'll just be talking about today. So let me share my slides. All right.
 So I'm going to do actually my entire screen. Let's see here, and then switch back and forth.
 Oh, thank you so much for saying that, because I was just... You know how there's always that feeling
 of like, "Oh, can you guys see it?" Yes. All right, so a little bit intro. We already went over that. I can
 totally just fix or skip right over that, so that's fantastic. If you do want to check out this, our
 site, shopprotique.com, we'd really appreciate that. I don't know if anyone is actually running
 a Shopify store. If you are, please drop me a note. I would absolutely love to talk to you.
 Cool. All right, let's get into this. So product management. What is product management, really?
 It seems everyone actually has different definitions depending on what company you're working
 at and where you are, especially with startups. Product management, one thing
 that I always come back to is that product management does not equal project management,
 because a lot of people tend to get the two confused. But we're not talking about sprints
 or scrums or anything like that. We're actually talking about the why as opposed to the how.
 So why are certain features getting prioritized? How are you making those decisions? How are you
 getting the feedback that's informing those decisions that you make on your product,
 all that kind of stuff. So product management doesn't quite equal project management. Again,
 you might see job postings where there are overlaps between the two. But in this case,
 we're going to talk more about product management, but there are sort of in the same way that you
 can say you're a web developer, and then there's front-end developer and back-end developer,
 and sometimes in the Venn diagram, things cross over. It can also happen with product management
 and project management. But product management is a whole field that has its own ins and outs.
 So my own personal definition of product management is that it's something that's
 going to be making sure everyone on the team is informed about the direction of the product
 and also feels a sense of ownership. So especially for startups, it's so, so important when you do
 have this like small, scrappy team. Everyone needs to be thinking about like, okay, what's this end
 part that we're building? What are we actually building here? As a developer, as a designer,
 it's really dangerous in a startup environment because there's so few of you usually to take this
 idea of like, okay, I'm just going to take a view of what I'm doing. That's it. I'm not going to
 think about anything else. You really want to be able to think about the product holistically. And
 you know, what is the vision? What is the largest strategy? So in that case here, as well, the other
 thing with product management is communication. So a lot of times, you know, not everyone on the
 team might know why something is being built. But I think that's a real error that can happen. So
 knowing why you're actually building a feature is really important. Bugs, sure, you know why you're
 fixing a bug, but do you know why, you know, you're choosing to implement a slider or, you know,
 a lightbox or something like that in the site or the product versus something else? Like,
 why has that been prioritized? So oftentimes, there's this term that sometimes bandied about
 with product management, which is stakeholders. Stakeholders basically means someone who has a
 stake in the success of the project or the product. So in that case, if you think about a startup,
 if you only have three to, you know, 15 people or what have you, or maybe more or less,
 everyone at that point is really a stakeholder. So it's great to get everyone involved. So in our
 case, when we were working on the sandbox, we were already all using GitHub for our actual
 development. And so that became an important piece of the development process, and then eventually
 led into being an important piece of our actual creating our product as well. So all right,
 that's fine. Do you need an official product manager? Like there's often this title, this role.
 And at our case, at our sandbox, we didn't actually have an official product manager.
 What we did have is a group of people that were very invested in the product and making those
 decisions. So even if you don't have an official product manager, you may want to consider
 unofficially giving someone that title. So in the case of product management in general,
 you're definitely already managing your product. If you're putting things out there, if you are,
 you know, shipping code, if you have users, you have a product and you're managing it somehow or
 some form. But a lot of companies, especially startups, may not know how this official idea
 of like, okay, like, how are we being intentional about it? And that's the key is figuring out who
 you can be intentional about your product management. So with that role that I was
 talking about, where you might not have an official product manager, sometimes you'll find
 that it might be your CEO, it might be a designer on your team, product manager, again, lead
 developer, there's usually going to be someone who has cares about that strategic vision of the
 product. And when, but is able to take the input of whether that's external feedback, whether there's
 other people in the team, take it and really determine, okay, how do we take all this feedback
 that's coming from all different sides and prioritize what we're actually going to be
 building. So the reason that product management is, is a good thing to think about beyond just,
 okay, we're putting things out there is that intentionality. So if you go back, if you have
 put out a feature, and you're just like, Okay, yeah, that's what we're going to build. Great,
 that's great. And you don't think about how that will impact your users, or you know,
 you don't have data to back it up. If you go back in six months and say, Okay, why, why do you make
 that decision? What drove that? How can we determine if that was success or a failure?
 If you don't have any sort of paper trail of why those decisions were made, it's really difficult
 to go back and say, Okay, this is why something is successful versus not successful. And we ran
 into that without a sandbox because before we were doing, you know, intentional product management,
 we really kind of didn't know why things were would work or not work. So it's incredibly,
 incredibly helpful to have some way to track the effect of those decisions. And not only that,
 but for developers who are actually, you know, building the product to be able to go back and
 look and see why something was already submitted. Was it? Did it come on support? You know,
 did that come from the lead designer that wanted this feature built? That way, they know, okay,
 here's the reason why I'm building something. And that is super, super important. And you're not
 just, you know, pushing code around. So why GitHub? Why GitHub? I mean, honestly, GitHub, the reason
 we went with GitHub is because you're already using GitHub. So if you're already using GitHub,
 for your repos, you're, you know, you're, you're well into it, that's where your code is being
 committed. Why not use GitHub? I personally found as a developer, especially that having everything
 in one spot, not having to open up another app, not having to have, you know, multiple different
 things and different places to look and connect all the dots. GitHub makes it easy to really go
 back and find history of why past decisions were made. So if you're already using it to store your
 code, it's fantastic. Finding out the why is a lot easier. So again, that context for developers.
 Now, that being said, with why GitHub, there are tons of alternatives out there,
 just like product management can be different from every company that you go to, there's lots of ways
 to achieve that management of your product. So there's Trellis, quite popular GitLab also has
 I think Trello built in where you have the different sort of Kanban boards, product board,
 roadmap, Zen hub, product stash is one that I discovered more recently. They're worth checking
 out. If you don't really care about the connection between GitHub and something else, I recommend
 checking out product stash. But these solutions can run, except for product stash, because it is
 free to start off with. A lot of these, Trello is also free, but some of these are for one user for
 a month, it can be $20 to $80 for one user. And when you're in sort of startup mode, at least,
 you know, if you're bootstrapping, you want to be very concerned about, okay, how much is this
 going to eat into the monthly budget? You know, is it scalable? How is this going to determine how
 is this going to help or hurt the bottom line? And the great thing about GitHub is that if you're
 already using GitHub, and you need some sort of solution for product management, why not GitHub?
 Because if you determine that it doesn't work for you, and you want to try something else,
 there's no selling costs, it's free, it's already in there. So it's worth a shot. And it worked out
 quite well for us. So some caveats about GitHub, we might as well get them out there. GitHub is not
 necessarily for everyone. Some non technical people can get overwhelmed by GitHub, there is a lot of
 tabs and buttons and places to go and search. But I have found that we, you know, all of our support
 team at out of the sandbox, they were all on GitHub, and we're able to go in and submit issues
 and we're fine. It's just a matter of making sure that everyone in your team has a proper intro,
 and feels comfortable searching for things. So it's really a matter of onboarding properly and not
 just saying like, okay, here's what we're using now. Another thing that is kind of a downside
 with GitHub, depending on the type of product management you're going to be doing now this isn't
 this is again going into the territory of project management. But having specific detailed timelines
 isn't the easiest in GitHub, they do have something called milestones, which you can
 use to set a date for something. But they don't have to get charts and that kind of thing. So
 depending on the needs of you know, how detail oriented you want to be with your planning
 for your product, timelines can be tricky. I've been fine, though, you know, if you're working,
 if you're doing product management in agency type setting versus a product company, timelines tend
 to be a lot more strict at an agency type environment, because you have clients that are
 relying on you, you know, you really have to get that out the door. Whereas if you're an internal
 product team, sometimes you have a little bit more leeway. So may not be as necessary.
 As well, the last caveat here is that in order to vote and comment on an issue, you need to be
 added to the repo itself. So what I mean by that is, you may have seen sort of public roadmaps
 before or where you can sort of take a look at issues and that kind of thing. I'm actually going
 to show you an example right now, which is a really great one. There's this, if you haven't
 heard of this app before, it's called markup. And markup, what it does is it allows you to add
 exactly that markup to any websites or anything like that. And they have this great public
 roadmap. So this is built in Trello, which is totally free. And so you can see here, you can do
 sort of little upvotes and comments and that kind of thing, you'll see that we're going to recreate
 something very similar in GitHub, but it's for internal use only. So this idea of a public
 roadmap, you could definitely sort of recreate it in Trello and have one in GitHub as well.
 I would say it's actually a good thing to have two different ones, because you can get a lot
 more detail, you know, maybe put internal things that you want on the GitHub roadmap and then have
 a beautiful public facing roadmap that people can interact with in Trello. Yeah, so that is the
 caveat. So we'll keep on moving. Yeah. So that's going to be that was my intro, basically. Sorry,
 I've got two screens going here on product management sort of as a whole. And I wanted to
 just stop here before we get into actually going into GitHub and just see if anyone had any
 questions about product management in general, like things not clarified. I'm not an expert
 on product management. I've done a lot of research, but you know, I'm not an expert. So
 Margaret is requesting to share her video. So I'm just gonna accept that. And I think she has
 a question for you. I don't just wanted to come in and see your talk and so Margaret is actually
 who you should talk to if you want more of an in depth view on product management, because
 Margaret is a product manager at pixel union and is incredible. And yes, so
 I won't steal your thunder. I'll let you keep doing your talk.
 Samantha did ask, I see the question here. Can you keep your repos private if you're using GitHub
 for free? Yes. Originally, GitHub did not have that feature where you had to pay for private
 repos. They've now changed that you can now have as many free private repos as you want.
 All right. Okay, so you're intrigued. How does this work? So now we get into meeting
 the fictional startup. So what I've actually done is created a little GitHub repo here.
 So if you have a GitHub account, let me just pop back over here. So I know you're screen sharing,
 so it's like double but um, what's the difference between product manager and product owner? Oh,
 that's a great question. That is also one of those ones where it depends on the company. And the size
 oftentimes people use them interchangeably. But product manager and product owner. There's,
 I mean, I would argue there's not that much of a difference, I could probably make up something
 and say like, okay, well, you know, product manager or product owner is more about like,
 the strategic vision. And the product manager is about like, compiling all of the information
 and putting it on the roadmap and that kind of thing. But honestly, they can be pretty
 interchangeable. If you look at the job postings, you'll see that they're very similar. Yeah.
 Cool. So what I actually love to do is, I'm going to pop over to GitHub. And so I've got in here,
 my organizations. So what I've done is I've created a fake app company. So this is our app
 company. So this is what we're going to play around with. And what I actually love to do,
 I don't actually know how many people we've got, we only have 11 people, how many people here
 have actual GitHub accounts, because what I'd love to do is actually add everyone to the GitHub
 account, and we can just play around with it. So if you want to post your GitHub account username
 in the chat, I can add in there. All right, yes, look at the wall. Actually, what I'm going to do,
 since Amy is our moderator, Amy, if you don't mind, I'm going to add you first.
 She really has people. So I'm actually going to make I'm making you know, that's right.
 And then, Amy, with this power comes great responsibility. Do you mind just adding
 everyone that's in the chat to the repo? Yeah, of course, I'll do that. Amazing. Thank you.
 Okay, so here is our role playing game as we're doing Dungeons and Dragons, but product
 management style. So we have this repo. And this is our fake app company. So we have three different
 repositories in here where we're storing our code. So we've got our shoppable Instagram. So this is
 our imaginary app. We're just playing Instagram feeds on Shopify stores. We have so also funny
 story. This is giraffe apps. This was an actual startup that I worked at way back in the day.
 Well, one of the things that they put out there, it's like a social media thing. So I asked if I
 could use the logo and they said yes, doesn't exist anymore. And like all cool startups of back in the
 day, it's giraffe neck. But we've taken out all the vowels because that's the way things were done
 back then. So that's giraffe neck. So where we got an app that's a shoppable Instagram,
 we have our site that we use to advertise and support our giraffe neck apps. And then we also
 have a spelling and grammar app. So these are sort of the three ongoing projects that we have
 to take care of. So this is our startup. We've got two apps, we've got our website that we need
 to take care of, which is more of a brochure site. So this is where we're going to, you know, manage
 all of these very different things, basically. So if I refresh here, we've got three people now.
 Exciting. So here we go. Let me just pop back to the slides for a second. So quick intro to the
 GitHub interface. First off, so this screen that we're on right now, you can see it just says
 giraffe neck in our URL. So this is our organization. Okay, so you can create an
 organization, you can create as many organizations as you'd like on GitHub, and you can have for
 multiple companies that you're running or what have you, you can see if I go back to
 your organizations, I've got HackerU, which is I teach web development part time. So HackerU,
 Juno, part of them, another small app, giraffe neck, and then Shop Critique, which is
 my company. So these are all the various different organizations. So if I pop back to
 giraffe neck, again, it's just going to show me these are the, you know, different areas of concern
 for giraffe apps. So then we have people. So these are all, yes, hello, welcome team. We're going to
 do great things here. And so what we're going to do now is we're going to take a look, let me pop
 back to the slides. So I'm actually curious in the chat again, how many people have used what,
 it seems like a lot of people have GitHub already. So have people used GitHub for development
 purposes before? Fingers crossed? Totally. Awesome. Great. Okay. Yeah, awesome. Everyone's on board.
 Yes. That's why you're here. All right, cool. You got one note. That's okay. All right. So
 we've got various repos. So pop back here. So that's sort of the intro to GitHub. And if we
 click into any of these, you'll see, okay, here's where we store all of our code. Honestly, I just
 created these. So there's not really much code in here. If you ever want to go back to the main
 organization page, again, it's like breadcrumbs, you can click through like that. Okay, overview
 three repos did that. All right. So let's talk a little bit about internal versus external feedback.
 So at the moment, we have our various apps. And the one that we're gonna be focusing on for today,
 I just wanted to show that we have three different ones, but we're gonna be focusing on our tropical
 Instagram. So we're gonna click inside there. And if you're not familiar with tropical Instagram,
 just to show you what that is. So Shopify app, there are tons of them, you can see here, there's
 110 results. But it's an app that when you click on an image, there are sort of little hotspots,
 potentially, some of them do have hotspots, some of them don't. So it pulls in an Instagram feed
 and allows you to link your Instagram photos to products on your website. Okay, so that's the app
 that we have supposedly built, and that we're now supporting. And we're building out as our product,
 and we want to make it better. And that's what we're looking towards. Okay, so the main areas
 that we're going to focus on for this are we have our code, and then we have issues and projects,
 these are going to be the two areas that we're going to hang around in the most. So if you click
 on issues, you'll see I've added one issue here, it's just kind of hanging out by itself. And if
 you click inside the issue, if you use GitHub before, this is potentially very familiar to you.
 Okay, so we have the description of our issue. It's a bug. Okay, all fine and dandy. Great. And
 then we have our projects. So it's an ongoing project. Okay, how does this relate to actual
 product management? This feels like project management. Well, let's pop back here for a sec.
 And think about this idea of internal versus external feedback. So internal issues are going
 to be ones that people on our team create. So that means, you know, people on support,
 a designer, a CEO, whoever, whoever can create any type of GitHub issue. And what you can expect from
 the people on your team that are creating those issues is, or at least hope to expect is detailed
 information. What I mean by that is, we're going to be setting up something called issue templates,
 which gives more of a frame of framework for people when they're filling out and submitting
 GitHub issues, how to actually say like, okay, this is the information that we're looking for
 to move forward. Then we have external issues. So external issues are submitted by customers
 and users. They're not always the clearest. And beware the squeaky wheel. What I mean by that is,
 you might have someone who is incredibly angry about this one specific thing that your app
 doesn't do. Should you listen to them? Or should you focus on something else? With product
 management, it's always a balancing act in terms of trying to figure out, okay, do we focus on
 technical debt? Do we focus on this thing that's going to give us revenue? You know, what are we
 focusing on? Do we focus on this one bug fix or all of these sort of priorities going on? So
 that's what we want to do with product management is capture both that internal, so you know,
 it's like a giant suggestion box. You want everybody on the team to be able to think
 about ideas and just throw them somewhere. You want to be able to capture all of that great, great
 brain juice that's going to be captured. And then you have the external feedback,
 which is people that, you know, are using your actual product and have opinions on the direction
 that it should go. Okay, so we have our three different projects that we're working with here,
 our three different repos. So let's set up an internal roadmap so that we can see what's
 going on with all of them. So we're going to go back to Giraffe neck, our main organization area.
 I'm just going to quickly check to make sure there's no like questions or anything here. Okay,
 I'll get it here. Okay, so cool thing about GitHub is that it actually allows you to have this idea
 of a global project. So you may have experimented or seen these projects in individual repos before,
 but having an organization project can be super, super powerful, because you can actually link
 multiple repos together and be able to track what's going on in all those various repos in
 one single spot. So here we have about two projects that are open at the moment, I've
 got a status overview, and then our roadmap 2021. So remember, this roadmap 2021 is internal only,
 this is not something that can be shared to the public. This is just for our eyes only and our
 team eyes only. But it's incredibly helpful for a team because we can actually go in, anyone can go
 in that's been added to the team and see what's going on for the roadmap. Okay, so we've got our
 roadmap about this roadmap. Again, you can see that it mimics quite similarly, what is happening
 with this sort of markup public roadmap. So we pop over here at the moment, it's not very populated,
 but don't worry, we'll fix that. We've got Q1, Q2, Q3, and then over here, Q4. Q1, it's just three
 months. So they're all divided up in three months. So you don't have to do your product management
 this way if you prefer to break it down, you know, per month, have specific dates in mind,
 what have you. This is fairly common just to do it by quarters. So this is where you'll actually
 determine what you're going to hit. Like, what are your main, how are you going to build out
 your product for these specific three months? How are you going to prioritize things? So in here,
 we can add cards. So at the moment, we only have two cards that are just two bugs. So we're actually
 not going to add any of those specific bugs. Neither of these bugs are, you know, maybe they're
 not big enough or whatever to be added to the roadmap. There's also some discussion on whether
 you would actually even add bugs to like a larger roadmap. In our case today, we're just going to
 keep it mainly to features. So bugs generally aren't added, but something like technical debt,
 maybe if it's a larger, bigger, you know, meteor piece could potentially be added.
 So this is our roadmap 2021. So to create a new project in your global organization,
 you can click your product, you can create, you know, there's different project templates,
 all that fun stuff. I already created them. So we're not going to do anything there. And I'm
 going to come back to the status overview one. Okay, so that's our internal roadmap. So that's,
 again, where people can come in and see whatever they they want to see. Then we have issue
 templates. So I mentioned this before, which is where we want to make it easy for people to submit
 feedback. So if I pop over here to our shoppable Instagram repo, again, I'm going to go into
 settings. And then down here, I'm going to go into where I see issues. And I'm going to go click on
 set up templates. So what GitHub does, you can create your own custom templates, but they actually
 give you some pre populated ones. And actually, before I create one, I just want to show you what
 this is going to do is it's going to add choices to this screen here. This is where we add a new
 issue to our repository. So if you click new issue, you'll see that it just automatically
 comes up with a new issue. And we can add in information as we wish. However, if we pop over
 here and set up our templates, I'm going to do a feature request and preview and edit. So what it
 does is it pre populates this with information. And this is the main thing with anytime you're
 creating anything where you're helping, you want to help your team, basically make it easy for
 people to do their job. Don't make them think too hard about it, give them, you know, an idea of,
 okay, what do I have to remember? What do I need to fill out? This makes it very, very, very clear.
 So we're gonna say, Yep, that looks good. proposed changes. Super. We're
 going to commit this, we'll just commit it directly to the main branch. That's totally fine.
 Cool. All right. So now we have issue templates here. So I've added a new issue template for
 feature request. So now when I go back to issues, and I click on new issue, you'll see that I now
 have this option for feature request. So I could say get started. And now what it's going to do,
 it's pre populated with content that anyone on the team can just fill out.
 So in my case, what I'm going to do, it's an example of features that I'm going to add. Okay,
 so for our shoppable Instagram, I'm going to request alternative layouts. Maybe currently only
 have, you know, a grid layout. We want to also have, you know, more of a masonry kind of layout.
 Okay, is your feature request related to a problem? Please describe. Yes. So then we'll say,
 need more, okay, this has not been very descriptive, but need more options. Masonry layout.
 So alternatives might be custom CSS, additional context, context, maybe like, we'll put,
 imagine if we had a screenshot of masonry layout, for example. Okay, so what we're also going to do
 and actually, there is a way to do this in the creating the issue template. I kind of forgot
 about it. But we'll still do it manually here, which is labels, labels are incredibly helpful
 when you are working with GitHub, just in general, but especially for product management.
 So with labels, I've already created, well, it existed as enhancement, but I renamed this feature.
 So feature. And then what we can also do is we can say, oh, do you want to add it to a project?
 Actually, we don't. Not yet. We're just submitting this issue.
 Okay, cool. So we now have a issue that we've submitted says, okay, alternative layouts.
 That looks good. Now what I would love for everyone to do is we're actually at that point,
 issue templates, labels, actually, we're going to skip ahead, which is to
 the, no, okay. Okay, so we have an issue template.
 And now we will use labels for organization. Okay, so we did that.
 And how do we add new labels, though? So we added the feature that was already there.
 We go over to issues and go to labels. Here we have these are the default labels that GitHub
 just provides to you. I would highly recommend that you can add emojis to these, you can have
 a lot of fun with them, you can, you know, change different colors, however you want to organize
 them, then the default ones out of the box are just fine. But what I'm going to do is I'm going
 to add a couple of new labels. So these are going to be specifically for this product management. So
 it's not necessarily the actual, you know, project management of getting the code at the door, but
 more of that larger roadmap idea. So I'm going to add one that is as revenue. And I could add
 a description as well. But in the interest of time, I'm going to add one that is technical debt.
 I'm going to add another one that is MVP, which is minimum viable product. So this would be a
 great label, you know, if you're just creating a brand new product, so maybe you don't have
 any external feedback at the moment, and you're just trying to organize, okay, what, you know,
 major features need to get into this product to get out the door so that we feel good about that.
 So that would be MVP. And then you can also have nice to have, which is, hey, this would be a great
 feature. This would be super but you know, it's not really necessary. And then lastly, support.
 So that's probably coming from if you do have a support person, or maybe you're manning the
 support yourself. That's where that would come from. So let's pop back over here
 to our core issues. And what we've also decided is, okay, maybe with alternative layouts,
 we have determined that if we add alternative layouts, this would also be revenue generating.
 And so one of the things that you want to do with these GitHub issues is add lots of comments. So
 for instance, I don't know, maybe we, based on previous
 features that add more options to display, we've determined that this would increase revenue by X
 percent, for example. And then what you could do is if you had a previous issue that you've already
 been tracking in here that proves that or, you know, okay, we added this ability to add CSS,
 for example, you can reference that issue with a hashtag. Again, I don't have many in here,
 let's say any multiple items, and reference that issue. That's another key thing about GitHub is
 just linking, linking all the things together so that it becomes easy to track and find that stuff.
 So my comment on that, and based on that information that's been added to this issue,
 I'm now also going to add the label of revenue. Cool. Okay, so got two labels on that.
 So that is using labels. Next, we have, just keeping an eye on the time,
 we have gathering external feedback. This is a super fun one. Okay, so you may be thinking,
 okay, I've got people emailing about the product, that's great, I can capture that,
 I can manually add that in to GitHub, that's fine. But what if you want to be able to easily
 add in, you know, someone can submit a form, and then it automatically creates a GitHub issue.
 So because we're a startup, and we're bootstrapping things, we want to do this on
 the cheap. So what we're going to do is there are ways to do this programmatically, meaning
 you don't have to use any sort of like, quote unquote, no code tools, or what have you.
 But for the purposes of this, I thought it'd be easier to just show sort of a no code version,
 which is using Zapier. So if I pop into Zapier, what I've done is I've created a zap that create
 and then this is this already exists in Zapier, like they have it sort of as an existing option
 already. So create GitHub issues from new Google form responses. Okay, so a Google form was created.
 So shoppable Instagram feedback, submit app feedback. And then so this is about a type. So
 is it a feature? Is it a bug? They have to put in a title and a description. That's it. That is it.
 If you wanted to make it even easier for people, you could remove the title and just,
 you know, populate it with something else. The main thing with getting feedback from
 people is just making it as easy as possible. So then, I'm actually going to post this in here.
 Post in there. And if you all wouldn't mind, pop over that form and add an issue. So we're
 going to be collecting some feedback. Please no dirty words. So I will do that as well.
 So feature. Here's another example feature. I want to add more links to the product image.
 More links. And then my description is going to be currently you can only add one link to the image.
 I like to be able to add more. Okay, so I'm going to submit that.
 Response has been recorded. So when a Google Form submits, what happens is it is captured. All right.
 Yes. People adding features. Fantastic. Yes. So good. So what happens is they get added to
 this spreadsheet. Super. And then what happens in Zapier is you can see here that find data.
 So it gets synced up. You have to say, all right, these are the issue submissions.
 Issue submissions sheet. Yep. That's connected. Yep. Great. Great. Great. It's going to find the
 data. So it shows here's some example data that it gets in there. And then for creating the issue
 in GitHub, we can choose the app event, et cetera. And then you can customize the issue. So what we
 do is we populate the title column into the title description into the body. And then the cool thing
 about this, too, is that you can actually add additional sort of text around those dynamic
 fields. In addition, you can add an assignee by default, and then you can also add the label. In
 our case, what we're doing is we're going to pull in that label from our form field from here so we
 can choose so it'll determine whether it is a feature or a bug. So it'll pull that in. And then
 in theory, when we pop over here to our Shuffle Instagram. Hooray! We have issues that have been
 submitted. Now, remember I was talking about like caveats and that kind of thing? You will notice
 that by default, they are actually all submitted by myself, which is not ideal.
 However, what you can actually do, which is it makes it pretty easy. And there are, if you do
 it programmatically, there are ways you can sort of submit it anonymously and what have you.
 Unfortunately, that's not really the case with the Zap. But what you can do is you can search
 for Shuffle Instagram external feedback, select all of these, and then we can label this as
 these all as external feedback. Just taking its time. There we go.
 Cool. So now we can see that, all right, these are all the external feedback that we have gotten.
 Cool. All right. So that makes it quite handy. So then we get to the fun part, and this is also
 interactive. So I'm glad you're all on this GitHub team organization. And this is Emoji voting.
 So this is where you can actually, now you can get all of the feedback as well from people on your team.
 So what we're gonna do is we're gonna go into, okay, feature dark mode. So click into feature dark mode.
 Yeah, dark mode options. Awesome. So what we want to do is we want to capture what everyone on the
 team thinks about this feature idea. So this is where we want to collect our internal feedback.
 So yes, someone already did it. See the heart? So right here, so you can click either down here or
 up here, doesn't really matter. So I'm going to say yes, this is a thumbs up. Or maybe if I don't
 think, actually, you don't want me to go remove the thumbs up, you know, the eyes. Internally,
 generally, you can make up. I mean, these have sort of their own meanings. But internally,
 you can determine like, what does eyes mean? Does that mean that it needs, you know, more information?
 You need more documentation, you need more support. Does a hooray mean yes, you don't even need to put
 it through more discussion, we should definitely build that. Do you need a certain amount of,
 you know, thumbs up in order to, you know, say like, yes, everyone agrees, what have you. So
 these you can, they can be your own little determination of internally how you're going
 to vote on issues. But the main thing is to get people voting on issues so that you get that
 feedback. So let's say if I don't, I mean, there's some ones that are definitely okay,
 like, oh, no, I don't think this is a good idea. So I'm going to say no. Yeah,
 it's a really handy little feature. So well worth using.
 Okay, so now we get to the that sort of collecting our feedback. Now, how do we actually prioritize
 and organize that within GitHub and actually say like, okay, great, we've gotten because what's
 going to end up happening and what definitely happened out of the sandbox is you are going to
 end up with a lot of issues, a lot of issues. Sometimes I would get a little sad and be like,
 oh, wow, we have a lot of issues in our backlog. And then it always means we feel better to go to
 VS code, for example, on their GitHub repo, which I'll pull up right now. See how many they have in
 their backlog. They automatically close them too. But they've got 5k Plus, like they Yeah,
 yeah. And then so there's always something happening here. That's actually something
 that I'd recommend as well. Take a look at like roadmap or sorry, take a look at
 public GitHub repository, you're going to find a lot of really cool stuff that people are doing
 in there. For example, they're using projects as well. Not specifically product management,
 but it's kind of just neat to poke around and see what other people are doing.
 Yeah, okay. So now that we've got our issues, let's go back to our roadmap.
 And start adding them to our roadmap. And so this is the determination process.
 Okay, so if we click on add cards, this is going to pull in our all of our link to repositories. So
 that means all three of those are in there. So what we're gonna do is visit an illegal bar,
 because what it can do is we can actually click on this and see at a glance, how many people have,
 you know, uploaded this, what are extra, you know, comments on things, or the labels, you can filter
 by different issues. You know, I could look for maybe I only want to look for ones that have
 revenue, for example, like we're really focused on making sure that we want this this app to make
 money. So these are the ones that look at this and they say, Okay, well, no one's uploaded this,
 but does have revenue on it. And this is where, you know, it becomes, if you're if you're,
 if you're lucky, you're at a small startup, but you're using a lot of data, that's great.
 If you're less lucky, oftentimes, so I have a slide, you have to use ideally data,
 vision, and honestly, like a little bit of your gut. Because that's the key thing about getting
 all that feedback is you have to really know your product well. And if you don't know your product,
 well, then you have to sort of get there. And whether that's, you know, from people that are
 already on your team, and they can tell you about the product, from external feedback, it's just
 really sort of knowing it. Okay, so then we're going to add in our, so maybe for Q1, we're also
 going to add in our alternative layouts here. So as what happens is this basically gets built out.
 From there, we have this, this issue. And this is actually going to sort of spawn child issues. And
 this is where we start to get into the project management aspect of everything. Again, just
 looking at the time, but we'll go to the issue for details. And so you're going to get to the point,
 make sure here. Yeah, so we're pulling it all together. Okay, so what would happen in the
 course of our app is that we're going to get features from a Google Form or internal. So
 we're going to be basically putting together all that information, and we're just plopping it all
 in GitHub, we just want to have as much stuff possible in GitHub, we're going to add labels
 to our issues to these issues so that we can prioritize things so we can figure out, okay,
 like what do we actually want to be working on? What where is it important, we're going to
 prioritize, we're going to sort of going to vote and comment on the issues, we're going to prioritize
 those issues and add them to the roadmap. And then from there, that's kind of where we start getting
 into the project management, meaning how do we actually execute and get all of this done. And
 that's where it's kind of neat to have everything in GitHub, because there's that paper trail,
 where from here, you can go directly to Okay, this is an alternative layout, you know, depending on
 if there's a ton of comments or not, you can create a new issue, but reference this alternative
 layouts issue issue. So reference issue number four. So maybe I want to create, you know, a new
 issue. And then we'll just do a blank issue. And so this, this is going to be the issue for the
 developer, for example. So this could be, you know, what was the layout? Right. Masonry layout to
 I don't know. Yeah, sure. Okay, and then internally in this in the comment, this is where
 you can have all of your specs, if you wanted to, you could break it out into smaller issues so that
 it's a little bit more trackable and that kind of thing. But as long as you reference that number,
 four, four, yeah, alternative layouts. Original issue. So let's submit this.
 So now if we go back to that original number four,
 what you'll see is that GitHub actually links them together. So you can see here it says,
 add Masonry layout to app. So you have that sort of again, that paper trail of how things have gone.
 And then what you can also do with GitHub, your commit messages, again, we're getting into a
 little bit of project management is you can add if you add a keyword in your commit messages before
 these issue numbers. So fixes number four, closes number seven, what have you, it'll automatically
 close those issues as soon as it gets merged into whatever you determine to be your your default
 branch, which is very handy. Okay, that was a lot of information. But I think we did okay with the
 time. So let's open the dark mode. So questions that was a lot of information. There's also
 so feel free to post questions. Oh, good. I'm glad you like it. It's it's it's handy because it's
 cheap. But it also allows you a lot of room that use your imagination. I've got as well on my
 slides, I got the some links to project management resources. Inspired is a really fantastic in depth
 look on a really robust product management for apps and technical products. Some great blog posts,
 great sites. And then also GitHub resources as well. And then yeah, so that's that's me there.
 If you want to follow me on Twitter, email me anytime at and at shop critique.com.
 Yeah, that's that's that. Perfect. I've added the email in the chat so that you guys can just
 copy and paste it. Email and if you have any questions, or how how ask her how you can use
 GitHub for your product management. Besides that, I just want to say thank you so much for
 coming today and watching and session. This was the last session of the day. So thank
 you for attending startups. And for giving this really creative, like insight into how you use
 GitHub for product management. If you guys have any last minute comments or questions,
 feel free to add them now. And do you have any anything else to say before we all head out?
 I mean, is there any good alternatives to GitHub for most of the things you mentioned?
 Yeah, I mean, that's the thing is that the main point of product management is just being
 organized. And that's not totally true that it's it's that making sure everyone knows what's going
 on and having it be visible to everyone. So Trello is great for that product word is really great for
 that anything where you can give people access to the decisions that are being made and why they're
 being made and sort of seeing okay, like, you know, it's great for support to be able to know
 what's going to be coming out of Q3, for example. So there is yeah, product or Trello project. What
 was the one that was one? Let me go back here. I can definitely close my slides. I had that one
 slide that had all of the links and everything. Trello, yeah, thank you. But the reason I like
 GitHub is that they the projects that like the project boards that they come out with.
 Yeah, monday.com. I've never actually used it. I have also seen lots of ads. They do a lot of
 big ad spend. I think they're also fairly pricey, though. Again, like, to me, if you're already
 using, you know, GitLab, or what have you, and if your developers are already familiar with it,
 why not? What's the harm, right? So I have not posted the slides just yet, but I totally,
 totally will. Yeah, but I encourage everyone also just to read a lot, like read, even if you're not
 a product manager, because again, I was the technical director when I was getting into
 all of this sort of product management stuff. And even if it's not specifically your role,
 I would highly recommend just reading about product management. It is fascinating. And
 there's lots of great podcasts. And it's just a it to me, it's an industry that, you know,
 didn't really exist 10 years ago, like that job title product manager, or at least in terms of
 our technical products. So it's really great to see that it's getting so much attention now.
 Oh, where am I gonna post it? I'll put it up on my Twitter if you want to follow me on Twitter.
 Twitter again. Oh, it's alfalfa Ann. Perfect. And it's so easy to spell. It's like the hay.
 Did I get it? You totally got it. All right, follow alfalfa Ann for the link to those slides.
 I also, I believe that all the recordings for all the sessions will be posted on our linked
 the the startup slam LinkedIn group as well. So if you want to search that up on LinkedIn,
 that's where it'll be. Tom has another comment.
 Yes, it totally can be difficult to get feedback. So what I mean, it sort of depends if you have
 lots of users, generally, they'll tell you if something is broken. But oftentimes, it's harder
 to get feedback, especially on features and sort of what people are looking for. So thing like
 having a form that, you know, people can just go in and post and make sure that it's actually
 somewhere that they can find. But also doing, you know, user interviews is really fantastic,
 actually going out talking to people. Something that markup does, which I think is very clever
 is they actually have a full slack channel just devoted to to markup that they, you know, manage
 and that kind of thing. Basically, anywhere that you can get feedback, good, bad, otherwise,
 you just want, especially when you're starting out, you just want to have as much information
 as possible. And then it's up to you to prioritize and determine what you're going to build.
 So that's a comment. Oh, as well. I've had a lot of experience with users struggling in silence,
 because they're not empowered watching users use the product is definitely revealing.
 Tom also says thank you. And yeah, I totally agree. Samantha, I totally agree. There's,
 there's nothing more, like, illuminating than popping on a screen share and just doing so from
 a UX kind of experience, like, or not UX, or user testing, that is fantastic to see like, okay, like,
 why would they go there? I wonder, or, you know, why are they clicking on that? That's
 really fantastic. And then what you can do is then take that and then put it into GitHub.
 They don't know what the issue is. Oh, yeah, that's also so that's also a benefit of having
 sort of a sibling Trello board, like a sibling public roadmap that they can go sort of check
 out and be like, okay, like, I can vote on this and that sort of thing. So it's nice to have
 your internal one and your external one. Amazing tips. Thank you so much.
 It's 3.15. So that is a wrap. Great session. I agree. Thank you so much. And thank you,
 everybody. I hope you've had a really great time and learned something
 here today at Startups Land 2020. Thank you. Have a wonderful evening.
 Thanks, all.
