 Let's understand Git and GitHub. Now, this topic is not at all needed for a product manager.
 You will not be working on Git or GitHub most of the time. I would say 99% of the time.
 But your developers will be working on Git and GitHub almost all the time. There is no
 professional developer out there in the market right now who would not be using Git. Let's
 understand Git and GitHub for that reason so that you know exactly what your developers
 are talking about and how you can leverage the most of it.
 This is a very good video which explains what is Git and GitHub. But let me make it dead
 simple for you. Effectively, what is a code base? What is a code? It's just a bunch of
 files and folders, right? It's just a bunch of files and folders written in a certain
 programming language. That's it. It's essentially text files, nothing else. Now, imagine day
 zero when there was nothing written. The developer had written no code whatsoever. Day one he
 wrote some code. Day two he wrote some other code. Day three he realized what he wrote
 on day one was pretty bad. So he updated it and so on and so forth. Day seventh he realized
 actually day two was good. The concept was good. The approach was not so good and so
 on. So he wants to go back. This is where you need a version control system. You need
 a way to go back and forth in history so that you can track what have you done and in case
 you take a wrong turn in the future, you take a wrong turn, that is you took a wrong approach
 towards certain problem, all is not lost. You can just go back in time. Just like Google
 logs has a version control where you can easily see the previous version of the document and
 you can just go back if the document has gone bad informatic or something. Similarly, code
 releases can also go back and forth in time. That is all about version controlling. That
 is all GitHub does. It's a version controlling system. It is used to manage project files,
 that is the code files and it keeps a track of entire history of things. What changes
 you have made right down to the comma. It's not just which files were changed. It exactly
 tracks what comma, what sentence, what word, what was changed in what files and how many
 files. It's a beautifully complicated system, I'll put it that way. And extremely helpful
 developers who will start by building very basic versions and then they will start building
 more and more complicated versions. And as you start building new and newer versions,
 new and new features, obviously certain features will break the entire code and that is why
 having an entire history of what have you done in the past becomes all the more important.
 So Git was created by the same guy who has designed Linux, which is Linus Torvalds. So
 Linus designed Git and there's a very popular video on YouTube where he introduces. So Linus
 Torvalds on Git and he explains what is Git all about etc etc. It's a fantastically geeky
 and nerdy talk. So if you have time, definitely watch it. So Git also allows apart from helping
 the developers save their head and save their neck in times when they have broken the code.
 It also helps in collaboration. So the reason why Linus built Git was very simple. Linux
 is an open source software. So there are plenty of developers in different time zones working
 at their own paces at their own times and they would want to commit back, they would
 like to give back to the central code base, which is Linux itself. And as you can imagine,
 it's a huge nightmare that a random person who I don't even know has sent me a code base,
 has sent me an update to my program. Now I don't know whether should I accept it, should
 I not accept it and if I accept it, what all changes did I have to make in so many files?
 So Linus ultimately chose to design this Git so that he can collaborate and he can also
 at the same time take care of the entire code base. If something goes wrong, he can go back
 and he can fix whatever went bad. So Git works in two fashions. It helps in collaboration
 between developers and it helps in saving the neck of the developers. And what is GitHub?
 Think of GitHub as a social networking site for developers. Think of it as LinkedIn or
 Facebook or whatever social networking you like. It is that for developers. Instead of
 images, instead of profile, you will be uploading code bases. So developers like to show off
 what they have built. They like to show off what they have built and for that reason or
 they would like to give back to society because they want to be seen as somebody who can write
 code which gets accepted in very large code bases, very complicated code bases. And that
 is the reason GitHub has become very, very popular. Let me give you a quick view of GitHub.
 If you go to GitHub and you go to click on explore, you will see pretty much like an
 app store kind of a view. You can see the different code bases. These are the repositories.
 I'll explain what is repositories in just a bit, but in a nutshell, repositories is
 basically code bases. Deep learning 500 questions written in Chinese, 33 JS concepts. These
 are the most trending repositories right now. And you can see this funky little inverted
 Y symbol and star. So star, you can imagine somebody has liked it so much, it has been
 starred 6.7K times. While 595, this symbol, this symbol stands for fork. That is forking
 is just like on a road, you'll find a fork in the road. There's another road and there's
 another path that is created. Similarly, in Git or in GitHub forking is basically you
 took a code base and you created a clone of it. You created a copy of it from that point.
 So if today I forked this, what it means is from today onwards, I've created a clone.
 Now tomorrow this Leonard updates the code base. I will not have it immediately available
 in my code base unless and until I pull the code base from Leonard. That is how it works.
 So pull, push, forking, all of this works in Git and GitHub. Now you can choose to obviously
 change the date range and over the entire month I can just check which ones are performing
 the best. So Leonard definitely has done something fantastic because it is still ranking very
 very high. And Microsoft launches MS-DOS code base and this is also ranking very very high
 in the past entire month. 30 seconds of code, this also is performing really well. And you
 can see the popular topics over so much of time. What are the popular marketplace apps,
 the events, etc. etc. So you can see it's pretty much a social networking site for geeky
 node developers. And why do you need GitHub? Essentially you need a GitHub because when
 you're collaborating between developers, you need a place, you need a cloud server where
 you can simply upload the code base which the other developer can actually use. So imagine
 you are a team of five developers and a couple of new developers get added. Now how will
 this new developer start working on the existing code base? They will connect to the GitHub,
 they will get access to the central code base, that access will have to be provided by the
 previous developers. He connects to GitHub, gets access to this particular code base of
 the company, of your company and then pulls the code base down to his local machine, that
 is his local laptop and starts coding. Whenever he is done, he feels that he has developed
 something meaningful, he will push that code to GitHub. He will push the code to GitHub
 and it will stay there as a branch or as a version of the actual code base. Now let's
 say some senior is responsible for reviewing anything new before actually making it live.
 So that senior will look at the code base that this new developer has sent up, check
 out whether it is good or not, whether it is sufficient, whether it meets the standards
 or not. If it meets the standards, then the new branch, the new version this new developer
 created will be merged into the original one. And that's how all the developers will always
 have the same code base despite being separated in different machines as well as in different
 time zones or wherever they are. So in simple terms, GitHub is a hosting service for Git
 repositories. Just to reinforce, Git repositories are nothing but a historical log of all the
 changes that you have done in the code and along with the code itself. So code along
 with the code itself.
 So what are some of the most important terminologies? There are a lot of terminologies in Git, but
 as a product manager you just need to bother about repositories. Repositories are the folders
 in which your code is maintained and all the files within that folder will be tracked by
 Git for any changes, whether it is a name change, whether you have moved the file from
 one folder to another folder, whether you have changed one comma, anything, Git will
 track it. Branch is an independent line of development. You can think of it as similar
 to a new directory or a new version. So for example, if you were the developer or let's
 say you're writing a document and you get to a point where you realize that the document
 can go in two ways. You're writing a story and the document can actually go to complete
 two ways. And what he did was he essentially created two copies of the original document.
 And now you end up completing the remaining stories in two different ways that you wanted
 to. And you realize that one of the stories is actually bad, one of the stories is actually
 good. So you trash the bad one and you keep the good one. That is the whole purpose of
 branch. So it helps the developers in avoiding or in keeping things sane that if something
 goes bad, he doesn't have to completely redo everything. He can simply trash something
 that is not working. A fork is a personal copy of another person's repository. I just
 gave you an example. Forking is basically you take a particular code base and you just
 forked it. Which basically means you have copied it in the moment and it resides with
 you and you can do whatever you want to. Clone is an exact copy of your repository that lives
 on your computer instead of server. You have just cloned the deposit from GitHub and you
 kept it on your machine. What is committing? Basically you have committed, you have made
 some changes and you have committed to it. You have committed that code change to the
 original code base. So the set of one or more changes to a file. So everything you save,
 these changes are assigned an ID and this ID helps you track the changes. That is committing.
 You are committing to this change that this is what I am good with. This is what is going
 to happen. And what is master? Master is the name of one of the branches. Master is a default
 development branch. Master could be named, renamed in any fashion, but nowadays it's
 a best practice to just not rename it. The default development branch is called master
 and just keep it that way. So whenever you set up a new code base and you install Git
 in it, let's not go into how to install Git and stuff, but if you install Git in it, the
 default branch that will be created will be master. What is the branch? It's similar to
 a directory once again. Similar to a directory, it's just one of the versions of the code
 base right now. And as you develop, you'll create multiple branches. Basically you want
 to create alternate realities so that you just want to be away from any kind of trouble.
 If something goes wrong, you can just kill that alternate reality and you can come back
 to the original file. So once again, you or the developer will be working on this local
 machines. You will have Git installed in your code bases folder and this Git will interact
 with GitHub, which is a cloud based system. Think of a Dropbox, think of a Google drive
 and this Git will keep everything on to GitHub and will keep sinking back from GitHub. As
 a developer, you can control when you want to pull or when you want to push. So this
 pulling is basically pulling from GitHub and pushing to GitHub. So when you're done with
 whatever you were assigned to, you can push the code base to GitHub, which other people
 can get notified that something new has come to the GitHub, to the original code base and
 they can choose to pull it right away or they can choose to pull it later. Okay. This is
 how it works. So how do you connect to GitHub with SSH? So you need to understand SSH, which
 I have already hyperlinked here, that what is SSH? It's basically a secure way to connect
 with the server. Okay. So instead of using usernames and passwords, you can simply use
 a SSH key. An SSH key is basically a private and public key. A private key will be with
 you while the public key will be on the server, which you're trying to connect with. And this
 public and private key are super secure. You know, and you should basically keep the private
 key very, very secure and it allows you to connect with your server. Okay. So generate
 that SSH key and you will add it to your GitHub account and then you will be able to access
 the GitHub via SSH. It's rather very simple. Right. How do you generate SSH key? You can
 open Git Bash or you can just open a terminal. These are some of the commands that you can
 use to create SSH keygen minus the RSA. RSA stands for the encryption technology. Minus
 B4096. Don't bother too much about this. You typically will connect your email ID with
 the SSH key and this will create a pair of SSH keys and you'll get with the email as
 the label. Okay. This helps in keeping a track of who generated the key. You'll get a notification
 like this generating public private RSA key pair. Once it is done, you'll get a success
 message. You'll be asked which file name do you want to store the key in. Okay. You can
 just accept the default file key or you can change the file key's name. Right. The file
 key name is here is ID_RSA. You can choose to change that as well. Okay. Then you'll
 be asked to secure to enter secure passphrase. You can choose to keep one or you can choose
 to avoid it. And this will help in generating the SSH key. Once this is done, you can simply
 use SSH add and you can add the ID_RSA and you are done. Okay. Next is you can simply
 copy the SSH key to a clipboard. You can use clip or you can use anything else. Then you
 can go to your GitHub account, select your personal profile photo and then click on settings.
 And in the settings sidebar, you will find SSH and GPG keys. Just add the SSH key and
 you're pretty much done. It might sound complicated for the first time, but it's not that difficult.
 Okay. Generating SSH key is something that you need to get very comfortable with. Okay.
 And here's a very quick example of how do you connect your GitHub account? Okay. How
 do you create an SSH key and how do you connect with the GitHub? Okay. Very simple. So Git
 is a version control system and GitHub is a cloud storage where you can upload your
 code base and you can collaborate with your other developers. As a product manager, you
 might need GitHub because GitHub will have a lot of, as I can show you right now, for
 example, let me just pick this one. So GitHub will show the entire code base. You can see
 the code base here, which is, you know, just has package.json, index.js, readme and some
 stuff. It has 145 commits. So 141 latest commit has happened. There's only one branch. Okay.
 You can see the commit log also that was initial commit. You can see the branch name, which
 is master only. There's nothing else. Other than in tags, there's no tags to show. Okay.
 And you can see Leonardo has merged the pull request. So number 52 from Tiago. So Tiago
 sent a pull request that, hey, this is an update that I have created and it'll be great
 if you can just add this up. Leonardo reviewed it and liked it. And so he has merged the
 pull request to the original code, which he did just two hours back. So if you're the
 product manager, you can easily observe what is happening when, right? See, you can see
 this merge pull request. And if I just click on this highlighted thing, number 52, I can
 actually see exactly what got committed, right? Translation of readme.md. MD stands for markdown.
 It's a sort of a S format for Portuguese. So this guy, Tiago, actually did a Portuguese
 conversion or translation of readme. And that was pulled and merged into the original commit.
 See, Leonardo merged one commit into Leonardo emso colon master, master stands for branch
 from Tiago Boeing colon adlink. Now Tiago Boeing is the username of this Tiago user
 and ad-link is the branch name of this person's repository. Okay. There are so many contributors.
 Now if I just jump in, see, these are all the concepts that every JS learner should
 know. It's actually a pretty good one. I will check it out later. Anyway, if I just jump
 in index.js, this is all there is. The repository was created with the intention of helping
 developers, just a bunch of readme, nothing else, right? It has a history. So if I just
 click on history, I see that Leonardo has just committed 13 days back. So there's not
 much to see. Let me just try to find some file which has a lot of history. Let's see
 if, I don't know, readme has something. Readme.mt history. Yeah, you can see that there's a
 lot of history in this, right? And as a product manager, you can actually use, you can see
 this and you can create reviews, you can add issues and do whatever. You can go to issues
 and you can add a new issue, or you can just go back to the original issue and you can
 just, something has been logged and you can see what has been mentioned. Okay. Right.
 Let me just open some other code base, which might have a little more rich data. Yeah.
 So let's say once again, I'll just click on month and I'm going to pick, let's say, no,
 there is no trending repository. That's strange. Okay. There is something here. Okay. Let me
 just see. This one has 454 and trending today. I'll just change this to month. Oh, so something
 is being changed at GitHub's site. So I'm going to change this week. Okay. Today is
 working fine. I'll just use today. Let's just use this. Facebook research, mask-rcnn-benchmark.
 So Facebook research is the repository and it has this particular code base, right? It's
 a fast modular reference implementation of semantic segmentation object detection algorithm
 in PyTorch. It's an ML based. It's a repo for repository is also shortchanged for repo.
 So it's a repo for PyTorch. Okay. And we can see it's a CNN stands for Convolutional Neural
 Network. Okay. And these are two different algorithms for the same CNN and you can see
 it is detecting bird. It is detecting bird, a dog, which I think it's incorrect. I think
 it looks like a cat. There's dogs here. There's a boat here. It is able to detect a lot of
 things, right? Now you can see the 18 commits. There are two branches. So if I click on branch,
 I can see there's master branch and there's raise error branch. If you just click on raise
 error branch, now you can see the code base has suddenly changed, right? It was all edited
 updated two days back. If I go back to the master, you will see the files will be slightly
 different and they will have slightly different updates. Now you can clone the file and you
 can basically, you can clone the entire code base down to a system or you can just download
 the system, download the entire code to your local machine, whatever you can choose to,
 right? If I just, let's say I just, let me just pick something. Let me just pick this
 one. Okay. So in this one I can see there are issues. There are pull requests. If I
 just go to pull requests, I can see that the two pull requests has been sent. There are
 issues which have been locked. And as a product manager, especially if you're a product manager
 of a technical product, like an API or something, this is the place where developers would have
 posted their complaints and issues. And you can actually go here and you can create your
 own backlog, which products or which issues you would like to handle. Okay. If I just
 click on this one, for instance, I can see again, issues, 14 issues. If I just click
 on, let's say data, I can see a bunch of files. I can click on build.py and this gives me
 exact access to the code. Now from here, right, I can, you can directly, I can directly open
 it in the GitHub desktop, which is an application that is available for your local desktop.
 You can click on history and you can exactly see what changes have been done. Actually,
 not much has been done. Initial release was done two days back and there's another commit
 that has happened 13 hours back. That's all I can see. Okay. And if I go here, so this
 is exactly the change that has happened. See, this is the amount of changes that have happened
 between the times that the file was updated. Oh man, this is too much. Right. And this
 is a unified view. There's a split view. So yeah, you do not have to like do almost all
 of these, unless and until you are a TPM, you are a technical product manager, in which
 case you might have to do all of this. Okay. I can also, so this is a very fantastic, this
 is a very interesting time travel kind of approach. You can browse a repository at this
 point in the history. So at this time when the initial release was done two days back,
 the commit was done, I can just click on this and I can just view the repository, how it
 was two days back. So imagine that everything was good two days back, you started coding
 and after a few days you have actually landed, you have made actually the code worse and
 everything is broken and features are not working, the site is down. So what you can
 do is you can simply go back in time, two days back, one day back, one hour back when
 everything was working and you can just reset everything back to that moment. That is the
 power of Git and GitHub. There's another competitor of GitHub, which is called Bitbucket. It is
 by Atlassian. GitHub is a separate company altogether, which has been bought over by
 Microsoft, while Atlassian owns Bitbucket, which is exactly similar to GitHub. No difference
 except GitHub at least has open or public repositories. Bitbucket is more optimized
 for enterprise and hence only private repositories. So that is all about Git and GitHub and Bitbucket.
 That's it for now. Thank you.
