 Let's learn everything we need to know about GitHub
 as if we are a complete beginner as fast as possible.
 Welcome back y'all.
 I'm gonna show you everything we need to know about GitHub
 when it comes to software development, web app development,
 why we even use GitHub.
 And the reason I'm creating this video actually
 is 'cause I realize I've done a ton of content
 when it comes to how to approach coding
 if you have no experience using artificial intelligence.
 And I just gotta go over GitHub, right?
 This is like one of the most fundamental things
 for software development to understand.
 So let me just break it down as easy as possible.
 Everything you should really know about this platform.
 First major thing.
 What's amazing is that basically
 for most of what you wanna do,
 you won't have to pay a single dime.
 This is completely free, simply just sign up.
 I'll leave a link in the description down below.
 So then your second question might be
 is when would I pay for this?
 That's when you transition from a solo to a small team
 to much more of a GitHub organization.
 And even then when managing and running teams,
 you're looking at $4 a month for a seat.
 Regardless though, let's just see what this is about.
 So I'm gonna come up here, I'm gonna click my name,
 I'm gonna say your profile.
 So this page right here is kind of like the collection
 of everything that's going on.
 First thing I want you to understand, repositories.
 What is a repository?
 This is where we store our code in the cloud.
 If you've created something of wind serve, cursor, VS code,
 like you know where that code is at within that,
 what we call IDE, integrated development environment.
 Like when you're playing around with the code on here,
 that's on your machine, that's local.
 We like to use things like GitHub
 so we can put this in the cloud.
 Putting in the cloud has a ton of different advantages,
 which we'll jump into.
 The first thing you just need to understand as a baseline
 is a repository is where we store our code.
 Second thing that you may be looking at
 is 25 contributions.
 Anytime there is a green little dot here for a day,
 that just means when you actually push something
 to a repo publicly, and then obviously
 that's just your profile.
 So let's actually look at a repository here.
 We're gonna create a new one
 just to kind of walk through it a little bit.
 So the idea is this.
 We have our owner that's gonna be you as a individual,
 and then you repo name.
 This could be public facing if it is a public repository.
 So I just put test here.
 Next is gonna be whether or not it's public or private.
 So public means anyone on the internet
 could find this repository, find the code in it,
 and take it, or use it, or download it.
 Private is very clear in the sense of
 once you make it private, only you as an account owner
 has access to this code.
 Now when it comes to setting this all up,
 connecting GitHub here to VS Code here,
 I'm gonna leave a video down below
 that shows you how to do with Cursor AI.
 Very simple, connect both GitHub and your IDE
 so you can start doing pushes and commits with branches.
 What I wanna go over in this video though
 is what to understand fundamentally
 about your repo in general.
 So I have a repo here that I created
 in a two hour and 30 minute series
 when it came to creating a backend.
 So let's walk through this user interface a little bit
 so it doesn't look so crazy.
 So the first major thing that you need to understand
 when looking at this is what we call branches.
 So right now there is only one branch, main.
 Here's what that means.
 We have a line here and this is main.
 Main is how the code exists right now.
 So all these files, source, Python functions,
 that's how the code exists now.
 What we do when we create a branch
 is we're taking this exact code of how it sits now
 and we're creating a duplication of the code.
 So we'll come over here, exact same code,
 we're naming it so we'll just say new footer,
 we'll just say new, but new F for new footer,
 footer like the footer of the website.
 New footer has the exact same code as main branch,
 exact same.
 But the reason we're creating this branch
 is so that when we start making changes to the code file,
 e.g. we come over here, we go to our source,
 let's just say we go to app.js
 and we change something here,
 that won't affect the original main branch.
 When I make a change in new F, new footer,
 that doesn't change the main branch code.
 This is a whole separate branch now
 that's built off the main branch.
 So what this allows us to do
 is that when I'm in new F, the branch,
 and I make a change in the code,
 I keep going, I keep going, I keep going, I like it.
 At any point, if I mess up,
 so I keep going down that path,
 I'm adding code, I'm changing files,
 if at any point I mess up
 and I completely break the application
 or I'm just like what's going on,
 what I can do is simply delete this branch,
 if I chose to equal this extreme.
 Delete this branch and I'm back at main.
 Main hasn't been touched, main's all good,
 main's where I left it.
 That's one of the reasons why we do branches,
 so that we don't mess with the main branch.
 And the reason the main branch is so fundamental,
 this is supposed to be the code that's not broken.
 It functionally works throughout.
 Now yes, obviously when you're just starting,
 it's gonna be like, okay, well the code doesn't work anyways
 because I just started.
 Well, that's fine.
 But the idea is that the main branch
 is never really supposed to update
 unless it's absolutely clear
 that the new code that it's updating with is good to go.
 So what does that mean in this context
 is let's assume that I kept going down
 this little path of new f, new footer.
 Then what we can do here,
 and we're assuming the code is actually good,
 like everything looks good, we like it,
 we do something called merge
 and that's where we merge back to main.
 And then we'll delete new f because it's no longer needed
 as all the code changes that were here
 has now been merged back to main,
 so now main's updated with all the code there.
 So we delete new f.
 So now we have a new version of main.
 So your next question might be, is Corbin how do I merge?
 This is what we call pull request.
 So we can check out some close ones here.
 When you have a new branch,
 so for example here, we created auth done.
 This is when we added authentication to this repo.
 You can click it.
 What this was is notice a commit from main,
 that main branch from the auth branch.
 And what we do here, and notice how it says merge as well,
 there were files changed.
 These files changed are what's different
 from the original code in the main to now auth.
 So for example, if I went to my source app.js,
 the green means it was added, the red means it was removed.
 In the auth branch, we added these two lines,
 which means in the main branch at this point
 before merging it, they don't exist.
 Therefore, once we merge though from auth to main,
 now they exist.
 This workflow is called PR request.
 It's not absolutely necessary.
 If you're really a true beginner
 and you're just learning and just wanting to go,
 you don't have to do new branches, new PRs
 and all this craziness.
 You could just keep committing to main.
 There's no reason you can't.
 It's just not a good practice long-term.
 I also wanna make clear that in that video
 I referenced at the beginning of this one,
 I go over showing you how to do all this in terminal
 and actually doing the commands
 and teaching you step-by-step here.
 This video I wanna make very high level
 so you can kind of understand
 what the heck is the point of a PR
 and all these different things that you see
 like right off the bat.
 Therefore, let me show you an effective way
 that you can actually download public repo
 so you can start playing around
 and you can even download this one right here.
 The way we're gonna do this
 because this doesn't require an SSH key
 or any type of access token as I go over in other videos
 is all we need to do is simply is copy this HTTPS.
 You're gonna come over to your IDE like VS code, CursorAI,
 and what you wanna do is just simply create a folder
 anywhere so in theory,
 you could just create a folder in your documents.
 When I say folder, I literally mean folder.
 Like, you know, you right click
 and then just hit new folder, new folder.
 Once you create your folder,
 you're gonna do file, open folder.
 So I created a simple folder here called backinab.
 This could have been called anything.
 Gonna call it apples and cheese.
 Now I'm gonna come down here to the little warning sign
 and go to terminal.
 What I'll do here since this is a public repo
 and this is the advantages of GitHub,
 first off, let's make sure you install GitHub,
 which will be brew install git.
 Now, if you're like Corbin, I don't even have brew.
 The NPM command is not working, all that.
 Check out that 30 minute video below.
 I'll show you how to do all that
 and make sure you have no JS installed
 so you can do these kinds of commands.
 So once you do have git installed though,
 all we need to do to get a public repo is very simple.
 You do git colon, copy the HTTPS,
 paste this URL, hit enter.
 And I wanna show you this
 as this is gonna allow you to get really cool repos
 that are just publicly available
 and you can kind of dive through the code yourself
 like, what's going on here?
 This is interesting.
 And you kind of click through, see what's up and keep going.
 So come over here to unauth, go to homepage.js
 and be like, whoa, what's happening here?
 And kind of scroll through.
 That's the baseline.
 Yes, there is a ton of other stuff going on here,
 but you clicked on this video as a beginner's guide.
 Therefore, a lot of this other stuff,
 you'll slowly just start understanding more and more
 as you get going, but I gave you the fundamental tools
 and ways of approaching GitHub that as you get going
 and as you keep working in this kind of work environment,
 everything else has become a lot more clear.
 Like for example,
 you don't need to know what projects is right now.
 You don't need to know what insights mean.
 You don't really need to know most of what settings have here
 but you do need to know is the fundamental idea
 of building software when it comes to creating branches,
 merging the branch, how to commit,
 how to pull local code to your computer.
 This is just fundamental.
 Let's just learn how to ride the bike
 before we jump on the motorcycle.
 So here's what I'm gonna do
 so you can get a full comprehensive idea
 of how to approach this.
 I'm gonna leave my entire two hour 30 minute backend series
 that shows you how to build out real backends
 for applications in the description down below.
 And then before you jump into that,
 I would encourage you to check out
 my three hour and 11 minute video
 that goes over how to build out front ends.
 It's gonna be a little bit more simple
 and allow you to grasp these ideas a lot easier
 when building out a front end.
 Backends are obviously a lot more complex.
 So this is a nice little pairing here
 where you'd start the front end, then the backend,
 and then by the end, you'd have a very good comprehension
 of how to approach GitHub in the context
 of web app development, software development,
 any type of development.
 And just for reference in that three hour video,
 this is what we create.
 We created an entire front end that's actually live,
 webcafeai.com, check it out.
 This is all built with raw code.
 This doesn't cost me any money any month
 because the fact that we actually built it out
 and we're not using something like Webflow,
 that's why it costs me no money.
 I'm hosting it all, we're all good to go.
 So that covers understanding how to use GitHub
 on a service level.
 I plan on doing another video here
 that dives more into branch commits
 and understanding why we do a branch commit
 and all the implications of how to do a PR,
 how to delete a branch, how to even merge.
 A lot of this stuff, to be honest with you,
 is found in my longer videos,
 but I'll make a short, concise, nice little video.
 I'll see you in the next video.
 GitHub, two random videos.
 That's my face, I'll see you in the next video.
